---
layout: post
title: JSONAPI.org
date: 2013-05-05 14:00:34
author: Nick Boyce
---
I was interested to see [jsonapi.org](http://jsonapi.org/) spring up on the web recently. Though it's authored by Ember's team, the references to Ember have been moved from the homepage to the [history](http://jsonapi.org/history) section, and it's clear that the ambition is to set a standard for API compatibility between servers and clients.

Overall I applaud the ambition and it's clearly written by clever people. That said, I believe consuming the proposed data structures is more complicated unless you're using a compatible library.

Consider these examples...

> If the value of a resource key is a JSON object, the value represents a single document.
> If the value of a resource key is a JSON array, the value represents a list of documents.

Isn't it better to have the URL scheme define if you are looking at a document or collection? i.e. ``GET /resource`` is a collection and ``GET /resource/document`` is a document?

> To save HTTP requests, it may be convenient to send related documents along with the requested documents.

For example:

    {
      "posts": [{
        "id": "1",
        "title": "Rails is Omakase",
        "rels": {
          "author": 9
        }
      }],
      "people": [{
        "id": "9",
        "name": "@d2h"
      }]
    }

So to list the post title and author name would be something like (pseudo code):

    {posts.each (post)}
      {post.title} by {people.where(id: post.rels.author).name}
    {end}  

Now, that's pseudo-code, and in reality it would depend on what language or framework you are using as to how easy that "where" statement is. It's definitely going to be a lot more complicated than my example to do it in vanilla JavaScript. I'd suggest that nesting the documents is much easier:

    {
      "posts": [{
        "id": "1",
        "title": "Rails is Omakase",
        "author": {
          "id": "9",
          "name": "@d2h"
        }
      }]
    }

And it can be consumed like this: 

    {posts.each (post)}
      {post.title} by {post.author.name}
    {end}  
  
Yes, it's imperfect and can result in more duplication and less flexibility, but I think for a lot of cases that isn't an issue.